README.md, before:

# Ideas - A Platform for Big Brains

## Introduction

This project is inspired by X (formerly Twitter). I wanted to make a light weight social media application that my friends can use as well as showcasing my skills making Laravel applications.

## Installation

To be able to run this project you need:

- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/ "Visit Composer's website") version: 2.6.6 or later: [https://getcomposer.org/download](https://getcomposer.org/download)
- [PHP](https://www.php.net/ "Visit PHP's website") version 8.1 or later: [https://www.php.net/downloads.php](https://www.php.net/downloads.php) and
- [MySQL Server](https://dev.mysql.com/ "Visit MySQL Website"): [https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql)

## Configuration

In the root directory of the project, you'll find `.env.example` file. Make a copy of it and paste it on the same directory then rename it to `.env`

This is our Environment Variables configuration file. Now we need to configure our database and smtp.

Configuring Database:

```
DB_CONNECTION=mysql
DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
DB_PORT=3307
DB_DATABASE=ideas
DB_USERNAME=root
DB_PASSWORD=admin
```

Configuring SMTP:

To test the mail functionality I'll suggest using [**Mailtrap**](https://mailtrap.io/ "Goto Mailtrap and get your smtp token"). Signup or Login to your Mailtrap account then Goto **Email Testing** > **Inboxes** > **Inbox Settings** (Gear icon in the left of search bar) > **SMTP Settings >** Select **Integrations** Dropdown > Select **Laravel 9.+** then copy the code and paste replacing the below section:

```
MAIL_MAILER=smtp
MAIL_HOST=null
MAIL_PORT=null
MAIL_USERNAME=null
MAIL_PASSWORD=null
```

## Directory Structure

Here's the directory structure of the project with necessary files and folders:

```
ideas/
│
├── app/
│   ├── Console/
│   ├── Exceptions/
│   ├── Http/
│   │   ├── Controllers/
│   │   │   └── Admin/
│   │   ├── Middleware/
│   │   └── Kernel.php
│   ├── Mail/
│   ├── Models/
│   │   ├── Comment.php
│   │   ├── Idea.php
│   │   └── User.php
│   └── Providers/
│
├── bootstrap/
│   ├── app.php
│   └── cache/
│
├── config/
│
├── database/
│   ├── factories/
│   │	├── CommentFactory.php
│   │	├── IdeaFactory.php
│   │	└── UserFactory.php
│   ├── migrations/
│   └── seeders/
│
├── lang/
│   ├── bn/
│   └── en/
│
├── public/
│   ├── css/
│   ├── js/
│   ├── index.php
│   └── .htaccess
│
├── resources/
│   ├── css/
│   ├── js/
│   ├── views/
│   │	├── admin/
│   │	│   ├── comments/
│   │	│   ├── ideas/
│   │	│   ├── shared/
│   │	│   └── users/
│   │	├── auth/
│   │	├── emails/
│   │	├── errors/
│   │	├── ideas/
│   │	│   └── shared/
│   │	├── shared/
│   │	└── users/
│   │        └── shared/
│   │
├── routes/
│   ├── auth.php
│   └── web.php
│
├── storage/
│   ├── app/
│   ├── framework/
│   ├── logs/
│   └── ...
│
├── tests/
│   ├── Feature/
│   ├── Unit/
│   └── TestCase.php
│
├── .env.example
├── artisan
├── composer.json
├── package.json
├── phpunit.xml
├── README.md
└── ...

```

# Case Study

## Technology Stack

- Laravel - A PHP Framework
- MySQL
- HTML
- CSS
- [Bootswatch](https://github.com/thomaspark/bootswatch) - A collection of open source themes for [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)

## Why choose this stack?

- [Simple, fast routing engine](https://laravel.com/docs/routing).
- [Powerful dependency injection container](https://laravel.com/docs/container).
- Multiple back-ends for [session](https://laravel.com/docs/session) and [cache](https://laravel.com/docs/cache) storage.
- Expressive, intuitive [database ORM](https://laravel.com/docs/eloquent).
- Database agnostic [schema migrations](https://laravel.com/docs/migrations).
- [Robust background job processing](https://laravel.com/docs/queues).
- [Real-time event broadcasting](https://laravel.com/docs/broadcasting).

Laravel is accessible, powerful, and provides tools required for large, robust applications.

## Learning Laravel

Laravel has the most extensive and thorough [documentation](https://laravel.com/docs) and video tutorial library of all modern web application frameworks, making it a breeze to get started with the framework.

You may also try the [Laravel Bootcamp](https://bootcamp.laravel.com), where you will be guided through building a modern Laravel application from scratch.

If you don't feel like reading, [Laracasts](https://laracasts.com) can help. Laracasts contains over 2000 video tutorials on a range of topics including Laravel, modern PHP, unit testing, and JavaScript. Boost your skills by digging into our comprehensive video library.

## Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability within Laravel, please send an e-mail to Samiul Islam via [samiulislamsharan@gmail.com](mailto:samiulislamsharan@gmail.com). All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.

## License

The Laravel framework is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Refactor(readme): Update database configuration in README.md

README.md, after:

# Ideas - A Platform for Big Brains

## Introduction

This project is inspired by X (formerly Twitter). I wanted to make a light weight social media application that my friends can use as well as showcasing my skills making Laravel applications.

## Installation

To be able to run this project you need:

- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/ "Visit Composer's website") version: 2.6.6 or later: [https://getcomposer.org/download](https://getcomposer.org/download)
- [PHP](https://www.php.net/ "Visit PHP's website") version 8.1 or later: [https://www.php.net/downloads.php](https://www.php.net/downloads.php) and
- [MySQL Server](https://dev.mysql.com/ "Visit MySQL Website"): [https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql)

## Configuration

In the root directory of the project, you'll find `.env.example` file. Make a copy of it and paste it on the same directory then rename it to `.env`

This is our Environment Variables configuration file. Now we need to configure our database and smtp.

Configuring Database:

* Enter your SQL Server's username in `DB_USERNAME` and password in `DB_PASSWORD`
* Create a database named same as `DB_DATABASE`
* Note: Your SQL Server might run on a different port, in that case change the port number also!

```
DB_CONNECTION=mysql
DB_HOST=127.0.0.1
DB_PORT=3306
DB_DATABASE=ideas
DB_USERNAME=root
DB_PASSWORD=
```

Configuring SMTP:

To test the mail functionality I'll suggest using [**Mailtrap**](https://mailtrap.io/ "Goto Mailtrap and get your smtp token"). Signup or Login to your Mailtrap account then Goto **Email Testing** > **Inboxes** > **Inbox Settings** (Gear icon in the left of search bar) > **SMTP Settings >** Select **Integrations** Dropdown > Select **Laravel 9.+** then copy the code and paste replacing the below section:

```
MAIL_MAILER=smtp
MAIL_HOST=null
MAIL_PORT=null
MAIL_USERNAME=null
MAIL_PASSWORD=null
```

## Directory Structure

Here's the directory structure of the project with necessary files and folders:

```
ideas/
│
├── app/
│   ├── Console/
│   ├── Exceptions/
│   ├── Http/
│   │   ├── Controllers/
│   │   │   └── Admin/
│   │   ├── Middleware/
│   │   └── Kernel.php
│   ├── Mail/
│   ├── Models/
│   │   ├── Comment.php
│   │   ├── Idea.php
│   │   └── User.php
│   └── Providers/
│
├── bootstrap/
│   ├── app.php
│   └── cache/
│
├── config/
│
├── database/
│   ├── factories/
│   │	├── CommentFactory.php
│   │	├── IdeaFactory.php
│   │	└── UserFactory.php
│   ├── migrations/
│   └── seeders/
│
├── lang/
│   ├── bn/
│   └── en/
│
├── public/
│   ├── css/
│   ├── js/
│   ├── index.php
│   └── .htaccess
│
├── resources/
│   ├── css/
│   ├── js/
│   ├── views/
│   │	├── admin/
│   │	│   ├── comments/
│   │	│   ├── ideas/
│   │	│   ├── shared/
│   │	│   └── users/
│   │	├── auth/
│   │	├── emails/
│   │	├── errors/
│   │	├── ideas/
│   │	│   └── shared/
│   │	├── shared/
│   │	└── users/
│   │        └── shared/
│   │
├── routes/
│   ├── auth.php
│   └── web.php
│
├── storage/
│   ├── app/
│   ├── framework/
│   ├── logs/
│   └── ...
│
├── tests/
│   ├── Feature/
│   ├── Unit/
│   └── TestCase.php
│
├── .env.example
├── artisan
├── composer.json
├── package.json
├── phpunit.xml
├── README.md
└── ...

```

# Case Study

## Technology Stack

- Laravel - A PHP Framework
- MySQL
- HTML
- CSS
- [Bootswatch](https://github.com/thomaspark/bootswatch) - A collection of open source themes for [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/)

## Why choose this stack?

- [Simple, fast routing engine](https://laravel.com/docs/routing).
- [Powerful dependency injection container](https://laravel.com/docs/container).
- Multiple back-ends for [session](https://laravel.com/docs/session) and [cache](https://laravel.com/docs/cache) storage.
- Expressive, intuitive [database ORM](https://laravel.com/docs/eloquent).
- Database agnostic [schema migrations](https://laravel.com/docs/migrations).
- [Robust background job processing](https://laravel.com/docs/queues).
- [Real-time event broadcasting](https://laravel.com/docs/broadcasting).

Laravel is accessible, powerful, and provides tools required for large, robust applications.

## Learning Laravel

Laravel has the most extensive and thorough [documentation](https://laravel.com/docs) and video tutorial library of all modern web application frameworks, making it a breeze to get started with the framework.

You may also try the [Laravel Bootcamp](https://bootcamp.laravel.com), where you will be guided through building a modern Laravel application from scratch.

If you don't feel like reading, [Laracasts](https://laracasts.com) can help. Laracasts contains over 2000 video tutorials on a range of topics including Laravel, modern PHP, unit testing, and JavaScript. Boost your skills by digging into our comprehensive video library.

## Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability within Laravel, please send an e-mail to Samiul Islam via [samiulislamsharan@gmail.com](mailto:samiulislamsharan@gmail.com). All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.

## License

The Laravel framework is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
